hi everyone uh my name is
[Music]
sha uh I wanted to thank uh you know
Josette Barry Chris uh Stephanie
everyone at gray area for inviting me to
do this um and thank you guys for coming
out um it's really an honor to be
here I
know I know an embarrassing number of
you here today um so this has been a
pretty nerve-wracking talk to prepare
for in many ways y'all are family
right you're
all so incredibly smart and
talented you all have way better taste
in music than
me and and my life as as some of you
know just makes no [__]
sense
um I want to talk a little bit about
that
today uh since leaving the city I've
been working on two main threads um two
main lines of
work uh one is running gift poop a
project Rachel Binks uh who's going to
be on a panel later uh project that
Rachel and I built almost two years
ago um we we were highly influenced by
Golan Levan and Pablo Garcia uh the
words they said the projects they did we
talked about previous work that they are
building um that they are building
products as
provocations for us for GIF poop uh and
our previous project mesu that meant
building the the thinnest possible layer
of a business around what was
essentially an art
project for GI poop that project was
printing gifts on demand onto animated
lenticular prints printing the material
of the
internet and the question we've been
trying to
provoke was
this
uh what would the world look like if
artists got paid for their
work um we've worked with many artists
now uh selling additions of their work
and giving them 80% of the
profs it's been exciting work to
cultivate we've supported exhibitions
and installations all over the
world we've helped artists and
students uh P digital work out into the
real we've watched artists like Joe
winegrad go even further uh play with
the material itself as its own medium uh
creating sculptures and jewelries
cutting these prints together it's so
wild to
watch the other thread I've been
pursuing uh has been working with the
government um in December of 2013 I was
asked to join a team of folks working
out of a hotel in
Maryland to fix
healthcare.gov
um and I've been working with them ever
since
carving up whole swaths of the
website it has been without a doubt the
most important work that I will ever
contribute to in my life has been
exhausting and maddening at
times but it has also been intensely
humbling uh people that I've worked with
both from the tech Surge and the
government have been continuous ly
inspiring though by now it seems like
years and years ago that we started the
changes that we've been able to enact
have actually affected millions of
Americans taken together though these
projects make absolutely no sense um I
actually tried to draw the VIN diagram
of working with gifts and working with
the government um but all I got was was
this
um
uh there is no there is no intersection
in the content of these
projects they exist in very different
worlds but what I'd like to do today is
wander through some of the thoughts I've
been having around infrastructure and
culture and Tech in this city
thoughts that have been spread by a few
recent
facts that Uber has absorbed a research
lab at CMU to work on their self-driving
car at the median rent in San Francisco
has crossed 4,200 a
month while meanwhile in San Francisco
or in the Bay Area the homeless
population remains incredibly steady at
around
35,000
there is any commonality at all in my
work it is my interest in the analysis
and the design of
systems what I'm interested in is the
building of platforms the design at the
scale of
infrastructure took a a break last
summer see a very different kind of
infrastructure uh it was was an
expedition run by Kate Davies and Liam
young a studio they call the unknown
Fields
division our goal was to trace the
supply chain that we so desperately
depend on these
days to examine and encounter the
infrastructure and systems that support
us we sailed from Saigon to Hong Kong on
this ship the gunhill de MK a ship
larger than the Trans America
building that held hundreds of thousands
of tons of
cargo and had a crew all told of 15
people what I kept thinking about on the
trip was the steps that brought us to
this infrastructure that we rely on
these
days our containerization was an example
of Technology enabling both the things
we take for granted today while
simultaneously erasing an entire class
of
work up until the 60s we shipped Goods
through a method called breake bulk
shipping uh long shoremen on the docks
loading and unloading cargo of varying
sizes doc workers lives were both unique
and
exhausting their hourly ra their though
their hourly wages were generally much
higher than the local averages their
shifts were
irregular most Dock Workers enjoyed the
flexibility if on a random day a long
shoremen chose to fish rather than work
they were free to do
so and it's funny but not surprising to
see Echoes of today's ond demand labor
in these
sentiments but when the standardized
shipping container system was born a
product both both of Malcolm McLean's
Sealand corporation on the east coast
and San Francisco's own Matson
Corporation the entire entire dock
worker class was threatened and a huge
debate
emerged it's important to note that the
concerns that automation raised during
that time weren't just local ones they
were
National and the conflicts that resulted
were Fierce and
fractured but the labor reunions were
able to form an incredibly strong and
ongoing
resistance two major agreements were
reached between the shipping companies
and the Dock Workers in the early
60s in the Bay Area the mechanization
and modernization agreement forced
shipping companies to pay $5 million a
year into funds to provide for early
retirement disability benefits and wage
supplement for the displaced long
shoran on the East Coast the Ila the
international long shoreman's
Association was able to negotiate a
royalty payment on every container
passing through New
York using the funds to pay long
shoremen a guaranteed annual income
which would be paid for each qualified
long shoran until their
retirement it was a huge victory at the
time but these agreements that started
in the Bay Area and New York are now
seen as kind of rare exceptions in this
country the idea that employers pushing
for automation needed to distribute
profits to the people who were automated
away has
evaporated as and so have the
jobs in in just 10 years after these
agreements Longshore labor went from
over a million jobs to under
100,000 uh New Ports were constructed in
both Alam and New York in New
Jersey to accommodate the larger
container ships and they took the
industry with
them in New York the industrial and
Maritime work that emptied from the
shores of Brooklyn made room for the
neighborhoods we're all familiar with
today like Williamsburg Dumbo Red
Hook
there there are no simple stories
here I can't argue that shipping
containers should still be loaded by
hand nor can I argue that the Dock
Workers unions always acted in good
faith there are many factors that
influence the shape and the weight of
City centers and containerization was
only one of
them but I think of this a lot when I
visit San Francisco these days uh CU I I
have sort of a personal history
here I went to school at Berkeley
studied architecture and afterwards I
lived in the mission for 5 years I was
lucky enough to be at staman uh and help
make work for gray area's first show in
the
tenderloin but I don't and and though I
don't live here anymore I've watched the
city continue to lean in on
Tech the San Francisco we have today is
a surreal
one fueled by Services both social and
infrastructural subsidized by Venture
Capital which itself is fueled by money
from sources like Pension funds
insurance companies endowments and
Foundations and this is not news to you
all but sometimes I forget
um sometimes I forget that Uber now has
more than 20,000 drivers in the Bay Area
something like 15,000 drivers in San
Francisco the only company that employs
more people in the Bay Area actually is
Kaiser sometimes I forget that the word
unicorn meant not too long ago a
designer who could code
um yeah not a billion dollar
company and sometimes I forget that
magic
Sunrise
Karma and clear were words at all not
companies even even is a company now and
I
and it is weird and dizzying how fast
companies grow these
days but what's really fascinating to me
is that what this has done to culture
and
art to borrow uh daxian phrasing
technology weirds
culture we're long past the fervor of
modernism the emotional distance of
postmodernism we are fully in a state of
Main stream
metamodernism a constant oscillation
between enthusiasm and irony between
Fascination and
disgust taken this way culture and
Technology have
hypercubed holding multiple positions at
the same time in our
perceptions all at one all at oness
applied not just to density but also to
affect we can see this manifest as a
physics of the
internet that any popular enough ad
campaign will have an equal and opposite
reaction
GIF um and it's
Cory that any popular Enough meme will
end up co-opted by a brand in some
way the time it takes to close this z
loop is increasingly
zero uh Ryan Gosling's recent tribute to
the Ryan Gosling won't eat his cereal
vines that Ryan McKenry made was a
hilarious
continuation a touching
Memorial a smart marketing
play and an and an intense context
collapse all at the same
time it's
yeah
we can just stop
here um and and any this is not unique
right any new NE any new
technology built these days faces this
immediate use misuse and creative
abuse delivery pizza customization off
options have both been co-opted into
memes where pizza order nun pizza with
left
beef um as well as used for a way to
woman to send a secret message to call
for 911 when her abusive boyfriend held
her and her kids hostage in their
home not just tools that can be
co-opted in Lauren McCarthy's residency
in San Francisco last year she produced
an app called crowd pilot building on
much of her own previous work but
packaged as a fun new app for
crowdsourcing advice on social
interactions because it was built and
presented and packaged as a fun new app
it was hyped and critiqued as such it
got a lot of mainstream press attention
it was on all the tech
blogs I find this
amazing what what crowd pilot says to me
this project is that startup is
something you
perform and it's
true crowd pilot is built on the same
tools and technologies that most iOS
developers
use all that differentiates crowd pilot
from the inevitable startup that will
offer the same functionality is the use
of borrowed money as leverage towards
scale
leverage as Eric mentioned yesterday is
that extra weight you have whether
through Network effects or cash in the
bank it's what allows companies to force
their way through environments full of
incredible amounts of
friction the power of scale is what
Facebook uses to lure Publications to
give their content up for the sake of
instant
loading leverage as well as greed is
what allows companies like uber to offer
Partnerships with lenders signing up
drivers into multiple year leases that
they then have to pay back by driving
for
Uber Leverage is what allows companies
like uber to reinvent
sharecropping and it's easy to get angry
in all of this and call for
protest but I don't think protest is the
right word for
it protest is
disapproval protest is the first
step a necessary one surely but there's
so much more work
afterwards we know of course that
networks and systems are not
neutral but it is important to recognize
that our actions aren't are not neutral
either we are politicized whether we
engage whether we ignore or whether we
leave and protest does not adequately
describe the incredible Persistence of
people like Josette and the grey area
family over these long
years the institutional work that Eric
is helping to do with
cast or even the hard work of the
Dockers unions 50 years
ago protest does not adequately describe
the quiet and constant day-to-day work
of supporting friends or patiently
arguing for empathy at
work the word I like is
resistance leus Woods an architect and
Professor who taught at the Cooper Union
in New York defined resistance as a
measured struggle that is more Tactical
IC than
strategic it's from something he wrote a
few years before he died called
architecture and
resistance and I'd like to just end by
reading a couple pieces of it as much
for you as as it is for myself to
hear resistance is not something that
can be improvised at the barricades
it takes time and a lot of trial and
error this is only
just because the things to be resisted
have not come from
nowhere they have a History built over a
period of time a kind of seriousness and
weight that makes them a threat to begin
with they can only be resisted by ideas
and actions of equal substance and
momentum
resist whatever feels
inevitable resist people who seem
Invincible resist the hope that you'll
get that big
job resist getting big
jobs resist taking the path of least
resistance resist the panicky feeling
that you are
alone resist the desire to move to a
different city
resist the notion that you should never
compromise resist that feeling of utter
exhaustion resist the illusion that it
is ever
[Applause]
complete